ENH improve KernelCenterer documentation and tests (#19901)
scikit-learn/scikit-learn: doc/modules/preprocessing.rst

-------------------------

If you have a kernel matrix of a kernel :math:`K` that computes a dot product
in a feature space (possibly implicitly) defined by a function
:math:`\phi(\cdot)`, a :class:`KernelCenterer` can transform the kernel matrix
so that it contains inner products in the feature space defined by

> :math:`\phi(\cdot)` followed by removal of the mean in that space.

Reviewer: Alternatively, this can be phrased easily if we introduce the notion of "centered Gram matrix" (see for instance, slide 71 of [the Kernel Course notes from J.Mairal and J.P.Vert](http://members.cbio.mines-paristech.fr/~jvert/svn/kernelcourse/slides/master2017/master2017.pdf)?
```
:class:`KernelCenterer` compute the centered Gram matrix associated to a
positive semidefinite kernel :math:`K`.
```

Author: I would be in favour of incorporating both formulation

> :math:`\phi(\cdot)` followed by removal of the mean in that space.

Author: I think that we are quite loose and I personally don't know what's best

**Mathematical formulation**

We can have a look at the mathematical formulation now that we have the

> intuition. Let :math:`K` our kernel of shape `(n_samples, n_samples)` computed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
intuition. Let :math:`K` be a kernel matrix of shape `(n_samples, n_samples)` computed
```

Reviewer: How should we distinguish between K and its matrix mathematical-notation-wise?

from :math:`X`, a data matrix of shape `(n_samples, n_features)`. :math:`K` is
defined by

.. math::
  K(X, X) = \phi(X) . \phi(X)^{T}

> :math:`\phi(X)` is a function mapping :math:`X` to a Hilbert space. A centered

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:math:`\phi(X)` is a function mapping of :math:`X` to a Hilbert space. A centered
```

kernel :math:`\tilde{K}` is defined as:

.. math::
  \tilde{K}(X, X) = \tilde{\phi}(X) . \tilde{\phi}(X)^{T}

> :math:`\tilde{\phi}(X)` are the mapped centered data in the Hilbert space.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where :math:`\tilde{\phi}(X)` results from centering :math:`\phi(X)` in the Hilbert space.
```

Thus, one could compute :math:`\tilde{K}` by mapping :math:`X` using the
function :math:`\phi(\cdot)` and center the data in this new space. However,
kernels are often used because they allows some algebra calculations that
avoid computing explicitly this mapping using :math:`\phi(\cdot)`. Indeed, one
can implicitly center as shown in Appendix B in [Scholkopf1998]_:

.. math::
  \tilde{K} = K - 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} K - K 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} + 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} K 1_{\text{n}_{samples}}

:math:`1_{\text{n}_{samples}}` is a matrix of `(n_samples, n_samples)` where
all entries are equal to :math:`\frac{1}{\text{n}_{samples}}`. At `transform`,
the kernel becomes :math:`K_{test}(X, Y)` defined as:

.. math::
  K_{test}(X, Y) = \phi(Y) . \phi(X)^{T}

:math:`Y` is the test dataset of shape `(n_samples_test, n_features)` and thus
:math:`K_{test}` is of shape `(n_samples_test, n_samples)`. In this case,
centering :math:`K_{test}` is done as:

.. math::
  \tilde{K}_{test}(X, Y) = K_{test} - 1'_{\text{n}_{samples}} K - K_{test} 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} + 1'_{\text{n}_{samples}} K 1_{\text{n}_{samples}}

> :math:`1_{\text{n}_{samples}}` is a matrix of `(n_samples_test, n_samples)`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:math:`1_{\text{n}_{samples}}` is a matrix of shape `(n_samples_test, n_samples)`
```

-------------------------

If you have a kernel matrix of a kernel :math:`K` that computes a dot product

> in a feature space defined by a function :math:`\phi(\cdot)`, a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in a feature space (possibly implicitly) defined by a function :math:`\phi(\cdot)`, a
```

Reviewer 2: this suggestion would imply a reformatting of the paragraph to fit in 80 columns. Maybe it's not worth it. Feel free to resolve without fixing ;)

:class:`KernelCenterer` can transform the kernel matrix so that it contains
inner products in the feature space defined by :math:`\phi(\cdot)` followed by
removal of the mean in that space.

**Mathematical formulation**

We can have a look at the mathematical formulation now that we have the
intuition. Let :math:`K` our kernel of shape `(n_samples, n_samples)` computed
from :math:`X`, a data matrix of shape `(n_samples, n_features)`. :math:`K` is
defined by

.. math::
  K(X, X) = \phi(X) . \phi(X)^{T} \ ,

where :math:`\phi(X)` is a function mapping :math:`X` to a Hilbert space. A
centered kernel :math:`\tilde{K}` is defined as:

.. math::
  \tilde{K}(X, X) = \tilde{\phi}(X) . \tilde{\phi}(X)^{T} \ ,

where :math:`\tilde{\phi}(X)` are the mapped centered data in the Hilbert
space.

Thus, one could compute :math:`\tilde{K}` by mapping :math:`X` using the
function :math:`\phi(\cdot)` and center the data in this new space. However,

> kernels are usually used because they allows some algebra calculations that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
kernels are often used because they allows some algebra calculations that
```

avoid computing explicitly this mapping using :math:`\phi(\cdot)`. Indeed, one
can implicitly center as shown in Appendix B in [Scholkopf1998]_:

.. math::

>   \tilde{K} = K - 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} K - K 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} + 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} K 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} \ ,

Reviewer 2: Maybe also add the factored variant of this expression.

-------------------------

If you have a kernel matrix of a kernel :math:`K` that computes a dot product
in a feature space (possibly implicitly) defined by a function
:math:`\phi(\cdot)`, a :class:`KernelCenterer` can transform the kernel matrix
so that it contains inner products in the feature space defined by :math:`\phi`
followed by the removal of the mean in that space. In other words,
:class:`KernelCenterer` computes the centered Gram matrix associated to a
positive semidefinite kernel :math:`K`.

**Mathematical formulation**

We can have a look at the mathematical formulation now that we have the
intuition. Let :math:`K` be a kernel matrix of shape `(n_samples, n_samples)`

> computed from :math:`X`, a data matrix of shape `(n_samples, n_features)`.

Reviewer 3: Since `transform` is explicitly stated afterwards, we could maybe add a mention to `fit` here ? Something like

```suggestion
computed from :math:`X`, a data matrix of shape `(n_samples, n_features)`, during the `fit` step.
```

Reviewer 3: I seem to have misunderstood this. It seems that there is no `fit` and only a `transform`, that can be used both to center the "test" K (K(X, Y) and the "train" K (K(X, X)). Something to clarify a little bit in the doc then ?

:math:`K` is defined by

.. math::
  K(X, X) = \phi(X) . \phi(X)^{T}

:math:`\phi(X)` is a function mapping of :math:`X` to a Hilbert space. A
centered kernel :math:`\tilde{K}` is defined as:

.. math::
  \tilde{K}(X, X) = \tilde{\phi}(X) . \tilde{\phi}(X)^{T}

where :math:`\tilde{\phi}(X)` results from centering :math:`\phi(X)` in the
Hilbert space.

Thus, one could compute :math:`\tilde{K}` by mapping :math:`X` using the
function :math:`\phi(\cdot)` and center the data in this new space. However,
kernels are often used because they allows some algebra calculations that
avoid computing explicitly this mapping using :math:`\phi(\cdot)`. Indeed, one
can implicitly center as shown in Appendix B in [Scholkopf1998]_:

.. math::
  \tilde{K} = K - 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} K - K 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} + 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} K 1_{\text{n}_{samples}}

:math:`1_{\text{n}_{samples}}` is a matrix of `(n_samples, n_samples)` where

> all entries are equal to :math:`\frac{1}{\text{n}_{samples}}`. At `transform`,
> the kernel becomes :math:`K_{test}(X, Y)` defined as:

Reviewer 3: Attempt to align the wording with the above mod ("step" is maybe not the best word?)

```suggestion
all entries are equal to :math:`\frac{1}{\text{n}_{samples}}`. In the `transform` step,
the kernel becomes :math:`K_{test}(X, Y)` defined as:
```

Reviewer 3: See previous comment: this is maybe not relevant anymore

.. math::
  K_{test}(X, Y) = \phi(Y) . \phi(X)^{T}

:math:`Y` is the test dataset of shape `(n_samples_test, n_features)` and thus
:math:`K_{test}` is of shape `(n_samples_test, n_samples)`. In this case,
centering :math:`K_{test}` is done as:

.. math::
  \tilde{K}_{test}(X, Y) = K_{test} - 1'_{\text{n}_{samples}} K - K_{test} 1_{\text{n}_{samples}} + 1'_{\text{n}_{samples}} K 1_{\text{n}_{samples}}

> :math:`1_{\text{n}_{samples}}` is a matrix of shape

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:math:`1'_{\text{n}_{samples}}` is a matrix of shape
```

`(n_samples_test, n_samples)` where all entries are equal to

> :math:`\frac{1}{\text{n}_{samples}}`.

Reviewer 3: `n_samples` or `n_samples_test` ? (I did not check the paper)
